So let's code.
The solution to this problem.
And here we can see that I have taken the input so initially we have N and then we have m, then we have the number of
vertex and the number of edges.
So for all the edges, I just take an X and Y in the input and I pushed it into my adjacency list of the graph.
cool, so now what we do is we have graph ready and we just have to traverse the graph.
So let's code a function called paths().
Right.
And yeah, so let's make it a void function and let's call it.
paths, what will happen?
I simply say we will pass two values to it, current and count
Okay, so before moving there, let's just finalize this part.
So I'll start from zero.
I'll go till N and I'll say, okay, find the path that is starting from I.
That means I'm just asking you to go over all the path which starts from I and initially I'll pass the count
as one.
That means there's one vertex that has been visited that is I right.
So when I'm moving I'm going to a vertex I'll just mark it as visited.
Okay.
I haven't taken the visited array.
Let's take it quickly.
Visited N cool.
So when I'm going to a vertex and mark it as visited and when I am leaving it I simply market is as unvisited.
correct.
So in the middle, what we do is we just perform this.
Backtracking.
And what I'll simply say is if I have not visited X, that means just go and visit it.
Right?
So just go and visit X and count will be count plus one.
And what will be the base case?
The base case will be nothing.
But if I have visited all the nodes, that means the count.
If this count, the number of node visited is equal to N, that means I have visited all the nodes.
That means I visited all the node and exactly once why once because I have never went to any node twice
because it was if it was marked visited, then I'm not going on it again.
Correct.
So I'm never visiting.
any vertex twice and I'm visiting all the vertex exactly once.
So if current equals to N, I simply say Hamiltonian.
path is equal to true that means there wasn't Hamiltonian path and let's say take this variable called Hamiltonian
path.
Also, what you can do is you can write this function which returns a boolean variable.
You can make it bool also so that it returns whether a path exists or not.
Both of them works fine for me.
So this is easy to code.
That's why I picked it up and I leave the other implementation to you where you can fulfill this path.
bool paths
Okay.
So just.
Yeah.
And here you can see it's a very easy, very easy and very, you know, simple backtracking solution.
So this is the part where backtracking is done.
Right.
Okay.
So I think this should be over here.
Right, because, okay this should be over here only because, you know, if I'm mariking any node as
visited, I will have to market it as unvisited.
I cannot just directly return.
so if count.
is equal to N I say, Hamiltonian path is true and I'll return it back.
So this is the main step, which is backtrack.
so in the backtracking
You will see one thing that we are performing an action and we are underperforming it again.
So that's the.
Major point of backtracking sp that's why it takes more time because we are underperforming it as well.
So there's not a special complexity to the solution.
So the complexity of the solution for this particular function is nothing but the number of Hamiltonian
path O of number of Hamiltonian
paths.
Right.
So we can say that if we have many paths and it will try to traverse all the paths starting from a node
i.
And finally, I can also.
print whether the path exist or not
Let's build it.
Okay.
Yes.
So the path exists in this graph, right?
what if i take this graph here also, it exist.
And I just leave it to you.
And, yeah, so we can do one thing.
Why don't I try and ask this to start the path from one.
So if I start the path from one.
Okay, this is the previous graph.
This is 0 and this is 1.
so path shouldn't exist let me see.
Yeah.
So the path does not exist if I just start from one, cool.
So I hope this is a very clear solution for all of us.
It's.
And see you in the next part.